(dashing through sound)
Alright, let's get running.
Our first test, and kinda,
one thing that's nice is about Jest
is that it's zero config.
So, the question is, where do you put your test?
And it doesn't really matter where you put them,
as long as they're either in a folder called,
underscore underscore test underscore underscore,
or, they have a dot spec dot js,
or a dot test dot js extension on it.
So, what a lot of people will do,
and we talked about this earlier,
is, you'll have a folder
for every single component that you build.
So, right now, we only have our files,
right in our components folder.
But, often what you'll see is, you'll see people
have a components folder.
And inside of that, you might have pagination component.
And inside of that, you might have index dot js,
which is the actual pagination.
That you might have a style dot js, which has
all your style components inside of it.
And then, you might have something like a pagination dot
test dot js, which will actually run all the tests.
Or, there's lots of tests you might see inside of that
they'll have a tests directory, and then inside of that,
you'll have all of the names of your tests, so,
whatever dot test dot js, inside of that.
Now, that's not what we are going to be doing here,
just 'cause, for simplicity's sake,
we are just going to have one folder
that has a underscore underscore test,
and then inside of that, we're gonna name,
we're gonna mirror all of these components
that we have here, with the dot test dot js on the end.
So, let's go ahead and do that.
You're not in your components folder.
You're just in your front-end folder.
You're gonna make a folder
called underscore underscore tests underscore underscore.
And then, inside of that folder, is where we're going to
put all of our tests over.
And we're actually gonna, sort of, double config these.
We're both gonna put it in this folder, and give it
a dot test dot js.
That's not necessary, but I just like to clearly show myself
which ones are tests, and which ones are not.
So, let's go ahead and make a new file inside
of this test directory,
and we'll call it sample dot test dot js.
Then, inside of this, we can start to write some code,
and usually what you'll do, is you'll have a couple imports.
However, there are a few globals that we have access to.
So, if we go to the Jest documentation,
go to the docs,
go to the globals ,
you'll see that there is all of these globals
that are available to us.
The ones that we're going to be using right now
are describe and test and expect,
that are just available to us.
So you don't have to import describe, test, or expect.
So, first, what we're gonna do,
is we're gonna type in a describe,
and the describe function will take,
first thing, you describe what's going on,
and then second, you give it a group of tests,
inside of that.
Now, that's important, because you use a describe
to group together related tests.
Generally, you're gonna have one describe per test file.
However, it's not uncommon for you to do multiple describes
just to keep them a little bit separate.
You can put as many as you want.
So in here, we're going to say, sample test 101.
Then you have a, arrow function inside of there,
and we can go ahead and just console log:
I am running some tests.
Now, we'll see if that works.
What we can do is go back to our terminal here,
and we will go into our front-end folder,
and we'll run npm run test.
Now under the hood, what is that doing?
Well, let's look at our package json,
look at our scripts.
You see we have a test command here.
That is just setting the node environment to test,
and then running the command jest with dash dash watch,
inside of that.
And we'll go back here and you'll see
you can get all of your console logs
that you have inside of your tests, right here.
And then it will tell you if your test suites
have failed or passed.
So, a test suite is a describe, and then inside of that,
we're actually going to set up
all of our different tests that we have.
So, let's go ahead and do that now.
So we'll remove that.
Now, we can either use the test command,
or the it command, and they are the exact same thing.
We are going to be using the it one, 'cause I feel like
it reads better.
I also have a bit of a past in using libraries that have it.
So, we'll say, it works as expected.
And then you give it another function, here.
And then inside of each of your it blocks,
then that's where we are going to be doing
each of our expects.
So, we're gonna say, expect, we'll say, one, dot.
And this is where we can use all of our dots to equals.
So we'll go to expect,
you'll see that they are all available here.
So expect one to equal.
I have a Jest for vs code extension.
Turn on here, that gives me these nice completions.
So, we'll say, expect one to equal one.
You see this little green dot?
It actually shows up.
This is pretty nifty.
I have a vs code package that will run all of my tests,
sort of, behind the scenes, so that I can see them working
inside of it.
You don't have to install that.
That's why I'm going to be showing you how it works
in the terminal, as well.
You see?
It works as expected.
Good.
Now, you can put as many as expects in here,
as you would want.
So, like, oh maybe, we will have a variable.
That's here, so var age is equal to 100.
And, we wanna expect the age to equal 99.
And, obviously, that's going to fail.
And it's going to give us good information
about how it works.
So, it expected the value to equal 99.
It received 100, and our tests have failed.
We go ahead and change that now to 100.
You see that?
They both have passed.
Now, you will often run many expects inside of an it.
But, as soon as you are checking something else
about how that component or how that function works,
then you grab another it block.
So, I say, it handles ranges just fine.
And we'll say const age equal to 200.
We'll expect the age to be greater than 100.
So, now we've got two tests, right?
We expect them to equal the exact amount,
and then we have this second test
that is handling the ranges,
and we get check marks beside both of those.
Now, sometimes you're going to have test
that are temporarily broken, for whatever reason.
Maybe you are working on the component
and you wanna skip that test.
Or, the opposite.
You wanna just focus in, and only run that test.
So, if I were to run a third test here,
so, it, let's do something stupid.
Makes a list of dog names.
And, we will say, const dogs is equal to snickers and hugo.
We'll expect dogs to equal dogs.
Let's just try that.
Good, they all work.
Now, let's try a couple more.
Expect dogs.
Let's try some of the array ones in here.
To contain snickers.
Is that still runnin' just fine?
Looks like it is!
Now, let's say we're trying to fix this test,
and we didn't want the other ones to run.
What you can do, is you can say, it dot only.
And what will do is, it will only run that one test
that we're working on,
and it's going to skip the other ones.
Similarly, you can use it dot skip,
and it's going to skip that specific test,
and it will tell you that you're two,
currently skipping one.
Often, that's better, because if you do have a problem
that is going on here, if there's an error,
you get your terminal all clogged up with information.
So, it's nice to be able to skip it or to only it,
and focus in on it.
So, some shorthands for that.
I don't like to add the dot only and the dot skip onto it,
so I like to use the xit, and that will skip it.
Xit, instead of it, will skip it.
And then the f it, which I think that, f it,
that's just skip it, right?
But it's (laughs) not.
It stands for focus it, which means, like,
only run this specific one.
And you can see here that I've got these yellow circles,
showing up to my l o tests,
because I'm focusing in on running this test.
So, that's the basics of how to describe.
Makes the test sweet, and then inside of that,
we run our individual tests,
and then inside each of those,
we run our assertions against it.
Obviously, this is just silly data,
so let's just take a look at how we can actually run this
with a real function.
It's gonna move this one back to it.
Make sure they're all passing.
Good, now, we have this format money function
that we use quite a bit here, and
there's actually quite a lot going on here,
because we're taking in the amount of cents,
and we're dividing it by 100.
We're formatting it based on US dollars,
and then if it's a whole dollar amount,
we want to leave off the dot zero zero, right?
So there's a whole bunch of different situations
where I might just have cents.
I might just have dollars and cents.
I might have thousands of dollars.
I might just have 100 dollars and 50 cents.
I might have millions of dollars and 50 cents.
So we need to be able to test, absolutely,
every single one of those to make sure
that this format currency, or format money function,
is rock-solid.
So that's exactly what we're gonna do.
Go into our tests.
Make a new file, and we'll call it format money
dot test dot js.
And you can immediately see that it just reran
and failed that 'cause there are no tests in here.
By the way, while we're on this right now,
the dash watch flag that I passed in package json,
it will only actually watch files that have changed
since your last git commit.
So, that's really helpful because it's not going to monitor
absolutely every single file that you want.
It will only monitor files that have change
since your last git commit, so, I really like that.
So, if you're having trouble, make your you actually
have a git repo up and running.
Now, inside of this format, money:
First thing we're gonna do is import
the format, money, function from.
We'll go into our lib folder and grab the format money,
and you could do that for all of the functions
that are in there.
Maybe that's some good practice.
Then we'll have our describe of the test suite.
So we're gonna describe the format money function,
and that's just describing what this test suite is about.
And then, inside of here, we'll have our it.
And let's try it first with just the sentence,
fractional dollars.
So it works with fractional dollars,
and here's where we'll have our expect.
So we'll say, expect.
We can run it right in here.
Format money, and we'll pass it one cent,
to equal dollar zero dot zero one.
Give it a run.
And it looks like it passed.
The way we can test if that doesn't work,
is if I were to change it to something else.
And also, this is really handy.
If you don't know what it's going to equal,
you can always just make it break
and see what you've received, and then what it's expecting,
and then you can just copy the received out of there,
and paste it into here.
And that's actually why we're gonna get
into snapshot testing, in just a second.
Good, now we also want to test it with
a couple other currencies that come in.
So we'll duplicate it, and let's just try it with ten cents.
And we'll expect it to be ten zero.
Looks like both of those work.
Let's try it with nine cents.
Should be zero nine.
Good, and let's try it with 40 cents.
Should be, decimal four zero.
Good, and that's really helpful because sometimes
I was running into issues where there was no zero,
it would just be like, zero, it would equal that.
And then I would say, no, even though you've rounded
and just showed me the number of decimals needed,
I actually need to visually see
the 40 cents on the end there.
So that'll show us that it's there.
Good, I'm reasonably happy with that.
I've kinda covered all of them.
And generally, what will happen is, if you ever do
run across something that broke, you're like, oh, weird,
when that thing was 33 dollars and 33 cents,
it broke in a weird way.
And what you do, you immediately go in
and write a test for it that fails,
and then you fix your format money function
so that your tests start to pass.
So that's good for fractional dollars.
Next thing we want to do is,
it leaves cents off for whole dollars.
So we'll set it leaves cents off for whole dollars.
Run that function here.
Say expect format money.
We'll start with 5,000 cents that should to equal
just dollar 50, right?
And, that looks like it's working.
So, if it wasn't working, you would get something like,
50 dot zero zero, and then it would break, right,
because I don't want this dot zero zero,
if it's the whole amount of dollars,
I just want the clean 50 dollars.
So, it looks like it's working for me, there.
Let's try it with one dollar.
That should equal just one.
Looks like that's working.
Duplicate that over.
Let's try it with 500,000 dollars.
So, 500, and that should equal 500.
That, looks like it's working.
The way, again, you could take out the comma
and see exactly what the function is giving us
versus what we expected,
but of course, we want the comma to be in there.
Then we want to do another one that has a mix.
So, it works with whole and fractional dollars.
So, we could just duplicate one of these, bring 'em down.
This is very simple, 'cause we're just using
the two equal assertion here.
I believe there's also a dot two b,
but this will be strictly quality checking for us.
So, let's say, 50 dollars and 12 cents.
So, obviously, I expected that to be 50 dollars,
and it's giving us 50 dot 12, so if we change that,
it's working.
If we get one dollar and one cents, 101,
beautiful.
One dollar and 10 cents.
Working.
And then, let's just go bananas with some crazy number.
That, I don't know what that will be,
so you can just kinda, (clicking tongue)
copy this, paste it in here,
and all of our tests with array.
So, you can see how it's kinda fun,
like, oh, how I wonder what other kind of,
edge case I could run into with this.
And I have used this function
in many of my different applications.
And I've run into
all the different edge cases for formatting,
and I think that I've covered them all in this.
This is a nice test suite that gives me confidence
in this format money function working.
So, that's a very basic of unit testing.
Now, let's jump into the specifics of unit testing
a react component.